Album Lister (uses ID3 tags)
============================

- A simple script to output a list of albums in a given directory or volume. 

- Albums ordered alphabetically by artist and then by album title

- Albums are grouped by genre

- Compilations are listed as "Various Artists"

- List is printed to console and also written to a file at the given location.

Usage
-----

    album_lister <path_to_disc_or_directory> <path_to_output_directory>
    
This gives you output like this:

    DOWNTEMPO
    Air: Talkie Walkie
    Boards of Canada: Music Has the Right to Children
    Boards of Canada: The Campfire Headphase
    Bonobo: Dial M for Monkey
    Cinérex: Exit All Areas (Part 2)
    Curly Top: Dubmission: More Bass Than Space
    Hird: Moving on
    Howie B: Music for Babies
    Howie B: Snatch
    Various Artists: Another Late Night (Kid Loco)
    Various Artists: Another Late Night (Mixed by Fila Brazilia) [Uk]
    Various Artists: Late Night Tales (Four Tet)
    Various Artists: Thievery Corporation: Abductions and Reconstructions
    Zero 7: Simple Things
    
    ROCK & POP
    Bjork: Post
    Leonard Cohen: Songs of Leonard Cohen
    Múm: Finally We Are No One
    Múm: Summer Make Good
    Pink Floyd: Wish You Were Here
    Rodrigo Y Gabriela: Rodrigo Y Gabriela
    Various Artists: Adrian Sherwood Remixes
    Vincent Gallo: When
    
Prerequisites
-------------

The script uses the artist, track title, album and genre information from the ID3 tags in the files which are found. Prerequisites are:

1. id3lib-ruby (gem install id3lib-ruby)
  
2. the underlying id3lib library in C:

    ### Debian
  
    Install libid3-dev and be sure to have ruby1.8-dev installed, otherwise you won‘t be able to build Ruby extensions.

          sudo aptitude install libid3-dev
    
    ### Gentoo
      
          sudo emerge -n id3lib
    
    ### OS X with Fink
    
    Install id3lib4-dev:

          sudo apt-get install id3lib4-dev
    
    Fink puts the library and header files in /sw. In order to enable the id3lib-ruby install program to find them, do:

          export CONFIGURE_ARGS="--with-opt-dir=/sw"
    
    ### Manual compilation
    
        Download, compile and install id3lib. When installing in /usr/local, you have to set CONFIGURE_ARGS:

          export CONFIGURE_ARGS="--with-opt-dir=/usr/local"

4. ActiveSupport from Rails. I lazily used this for the grouping.

Notes
-----

Some characters are not represented correctly causing spacing issues. Perhaps switching to Ruby 1.9 will fix this? Patches welcome.    

License
-------

Do what you like.
